Cite: 
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/09/21/remarks-president-obama-and-un-secretary-general-ban-ki-moon-luncheon-to


The White House
Office of the Press Secretary


For Immediate Release
September 21, 2011



Remarks by President Obama and U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon in Luncheon Toasts



1:54 P.M. EDT


THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone. These lunches come right after my remarks to the General Assembly, so I’ve already spoken too long.  (Laughter.)  As the host of the United Nations, I want to welcome all of you. In particular, though, I want to cite Secretary General Ban for his extraordinary leadership. As you begin your second term, I want to take this opportunity to thank you -- not just for your leadership, but also for your lessons in life.  
As we all know, the Secretary General is a very modest man, but he’s led a remarkable life. Born into World War II, as a young boy in the middle of the Korean War, having to flee the fighting with his family -- just as his home country has risen, so he has risen to leadership on the world stage.  
A lot of us are envious of him, because, in running for a second term, he ran unopposed -- (laughter) -- and he won, unanimously. (Laughter.) I’m still trying to learn what his trick is.  (Laughter.) 
But, Secretary General, that fact reflects the high esteem with which all of us hold you and your leadership.  And I want to quote something that you said when you began your new term: “We live in a new era where no country can solve all challenges and where every country could be part of the solution.”  I could not agree more. Today, we see the difference you’ve made in Cote d’Ivoire, in Sudan, in Libya, in confronting climate change and nuclear safety, in peacekeeping missions that save lives every single day.  
So we want to salute you. We want to salute those who serve in U.N. missions around the world, at times at great risk to themselves.  We give them their mandate, but it is they who risk their lives -- and give their lives -- so people can live in peace and dignity.
So I want to propose a toast. To the leader who, every day, has to work hard to try to unite nations, and to all the men and women who sustain it, especially those brave humanitarians in blue helmets. In an era of great tumult and great change, let all of us be part of the solution. Cheers. (Applause.)
(A toast is offered.)
 END                                                 2:03 P.M. EDT      

 