Cite: 
http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2011/10/05/remarks-president-obama-and-president-lobo-honduras-bilateral-meeting


The White House
Office of the Press Secretary


For Immediate Release
October 05, 2011



Remarks by President Obama and President Lobo of Honduras Before Bilateral Meeting



3:55 P.M. EDT

	        PRESIDENT OBAMA:  Well, it’s a pleasure to welcome President Lobo to the White House, and this gives us an opportunity to reaffirm the friendship between the American and the Honduran people.  Not only has Honduras been a traditionally close partner with the United States, but the people-to-people relationship is profound, particularly given the Honduran-American population that has contributed so much to the growth of our country.

	        Today also begins a new chapter in the relationship between our two countries.  Two years ago, we saw a coup in Honduras that threatened to move the country away from democracy, and in part because of pressure from the international community, but also because of the strong commitment to democracy and leadership by President Lobo, what we’ve been seeing is a restoration of democratic practices and a commitment to reconciliation that gives us great hope.

	        And President Lobo’s leadership is responsible not only for helping to restore constitutional order and democracy and a commitment to fair and free elections, but it’s also allowed Honduras once again to rejoin the Organization of American States, and for Hondurans -- the Honduran relationship with its neighbors to be restored to a normal place.  

	        Of course, much work remains to be done.  And I’m looking forward to a excellent conversation with President Lobo about how we can be helpful in ensuring that human rights are observed in Honduras.  We will discuss ways in which our two countries can work effectively together to deal with the security situation that exists not only in Honduras but through Central America, and how we can cooperate effectively in preventing the countries of Central America from being corrupted and overrun by the transnational drug trade.  And we also will have discussions about how we can continue to strengthen development in Honduras and the region so that people have opportunity, we will see economic growth, see economic development, and expand trade and further interactions between our two countries.

	        So Mr. President, I welcome you.  I’m looking forward to a good conversation that will help to strengthen the relationship between our two countries.  And, again, we are very appreciative of the leadership you’ve shown during what’s been a very difficult time.


	        PRESIDENT OBAMA:  All right.  Thank you, everybody.

	END 4:08 P.M. EDT

 